If you're at your first equipement of an aquarium you must follow this advices.
Before putting  the water you should already have an idea of the fish that you will insert in. 
This because every fish have his own esigences and then we have to know if the water of our basin have to be more or less strong. Try to now what values has the water of your tape and than cut it with osmosis water or demineralizated. Another way is to take all osmosis water and than, with the salts that we find in acquariofilia's shops, take it at the wanted values.
After a couple of days, when the water’s values will be stabilized and it will be the correct temperature, you can start to put in the plants, the more you put in, the better it is.
Other two days and you can start to put in some fish.
I suggest you to insert only one phytophagous (eat- seaweed), and one or two cleaner as the corydoras, in that way you can take under control the seaweed that normally form themselves in an aquarium just started, to eliminate all the remainder of food and to contribute to the maturation of the filter, for that you can also use some product that accelerate the development of the bacteria in the filter.
After ten days, you can insert some other fish and, slowly, put in those that you want but remember  that the less fish you put in, the better it is.&
When you have just bought a fish, don’t put it immediately in the aquarium. Let’s place the small sack in the water for a quarter of an hour in the way that the water will be of the same temperature of those of the aquarium. Then, you add a little quantity of water in the small sack, and repeat this operation for four of five times in an half of an hour, until the water that you have add it’s more than those that were in the small sack. The longer you can make this operation, the better it is..
At this point, with the hairnet, take the fish and put it in the aquarium. The water in the small sack throw it away.&
You now that during the day the plants, if in a sufficient number, should produce enough oxygen even for the night. Also for this reason we don’t have to exaggerate with the number of the fishes present in an aquarium. Generally it’s better “one plant more and a fish less”, especially if you are an  inexpert aquariofilum.&
Remember that sometimes you have to change the water of the aquarium. The frequency of doing that depends of many things, but if you change the 20% each every 15days it should be ok. In reality, giving for sure the good working f the filter, the necessity of changing of water is mainly due to the increase of  nitrates; this increase is strictly bound to the number of the “guests” that you have in the bathtub, to the eventual vegetation, to the quantity of fodder that you give to the fishes.&
When you want to put in some gravel o some little stones, to be sure not to make mistakes, follow this simple procedure. Pour on some drop of muriatic acid, than see what happens; if it “fries”, than that means that is rich of calcium and it isn’t necessary to put it in an aquarium of fresh water, if nevertheless it doesn’t happen anything then, more or less, it’s ok.
Attention: it could have percentages of others metals as iron, etc, that could pollute the water.&
The most useful test for the aquarium are those for the pH, the gH and the nitrites. If you want to deepen the controls there are also nitrates, the conductivity  and the iron. Pay attention to the type of light that you use to confront the colour of the liquid in the test-tube, it’s advisable to do this measurements  to the morning light, the artificial light might false the confront to the liquid and the reference colour.&
The normal values of the water for an aquarium of community are pH7, GH10, KH 3, absent nitrates, nitrates < 25mg/l, temperature around the 26degrees.
This values are good for the main part of the fishes but not for all of them. Remember to inform yourself always, when you buy a fish, of its own requirements.&
Don’t buy at the supermarket demineralised water for irons! Usually the demineralised water the we buy at the supermarket is produced by passing the water of the tap through cationic and anionic resins that withholds all the salts.
The regeneration of those resins is made of caustic soda and hydrochloric acid (it depends of the resin) and if the resins aren’t well re-washed, it will be troubles for the fishes.
The water the you find in a shop usually is produced by inverse osmosis (and then it can’t be named distilled) and hasn’t the problem over explained.&

Osmosis water. The correct term it would be inverse osmosis water or RO water (Reverse Osmosis). It’s a water purification system that, taking advantage of the pressure of the pipes (or of the pump if this isn’t enough) makes a part of the water pass through an osmotic membrane but in the contrary sense from that one in which it goes naturally. To be precise, having a water rich of salts as that one of the tap, an a water theoretically pure as the distilled one at the other part of the membrane the osmotic pressure would push the second to cross the membrane to join to the first one. But seen that we want to obtain the second one, we will have to applicate  a pressure such as the flow goes in the contrary sense passing through the membrane that one of the tap, but without the main part of the salts and various slags. The advantage is to obtain an excellent water for the aquariumfilia , even though to enrich  with eventual pads or to cut with the tap water. If the system of osmosis is good, we can obtain KH and GH at 0 and en elimination between the 95 and the 99% of all the rest as phosphates, nitrates, silicates, etc. Therefore it’s great to lower the hardness of the water of an aquarium.&

Don’t introduce gassy mineral water in the aquarium!!! The idea of add gassy mineral water theoretically can be correct, but practically not. The reason, indeed, the reasons are very simple:
1) The cost (but you can also find mineral water that costs less than the osmosis water and of CO2            
     to add;
2) The real reason is that in this way of have a peak of CO2 at the added of the water, with a rapid  
     decrease in about little hours, due to the movement of the pump.
Result: stress for plants and fishes and any possibility for the plants to take advantage of  the CO2 added.&

Never use the water of exit of an air conditioner. The water that drip of an air conditioner system is rich of dust, smoke and various polluting that can be in the ambient. We also have to consider that this water condenses at the contact of the coils of aluminium or copper of  the air conditioner and therefore you risk to put in an aquarium water strongly polluted.&
The plants need carbon. The best source is represented from the CO2, but some plants when this is scarce, they succeed to take advantage of the sources of carbon more difficult to obtain that is the carbonates.
Since the elevated decalcification happens (that cause a lowering of the KH and an increase of the pH) needs a good quantity of light and of the plants very efficient in this process that are:

1. Dense elodea (the more efficient); 
2. Hygrophila;
3. Vallisneria;
4. Saggitaria.&

To eliminate the greasy patina that sometimes form itself on the surface of the water you can try to make a hole on the wall of the first bucket of the filter and put in a little grill of those that sold in the aquarium shops. In that way the water that is on the surface will go in the filter and it will be this to clean it.
Another way it that to have some floating plants as Ceratophyllum demersum. A more drastic way it’s to use some absorbent paper of kitchen, supporting it on the surface of the water and than to throwing it away, it removes also the patina. In all the cases we have to search to understand the reason why of this patina. Often it forms itself  when there are too many organic substances in the bathtub, it’s advisable to make a change of the water.&
For distinguishing the scalario males to females you have to know that the sexual dimorphism it’s evident only to adults and during the reproductive period. The male has a genital  papilla made as a tip, while the one of the female has more the shape of a trunk of a cone.&
It can happen that suddenly they form themselves some little white dots on the fins of the fishes. It’s almost certainly Ichthyo (Ichthyophthirius multifiliis), it’s a ciliate protozoan quinte common in a fresh aquarium. It’s caused by a protozoan parasite that enters in the skin of the fish because of an  weakening of it that cause a thinning of the mucus. Usually it happens for sudden changes of the temperature of the water, of cold; it’s just sufficient 1 or 2 degrees in the ark of 10minutes, and this parasite enters in the skin of the fish, and it inserts itself, prolifering and causing a cyst (the little white dots that you see) that when it’s arrived at the maturity it explodes and from one  are born some millions, that drops in the bottom of the aquarium where they expect that return the same weakened fish or another one and they  re-pass on him but in a thousand times greater number, and it goes on until they attached all the guests of the aquarium, also the stronger ones that can’t make resistance to some thousand of protozoans.
If the disease isn’t cured it causes a general epidemic and to the slow death of the guests of your aquarium. The cure is more simple to make than to tell (in fact it’s the most common disease): you have to use some blue of  methylene or green malachitethat you find in a shop of aquariumfilia  already prepared in apposite products. To using it at the best remove every active carbon that you have in the filter and raise the temperature to 27°, that reduces the cistation period in the guest fish. After 5 or 6 days of treatment it should be all solved.&

Sometimes in the discus we have in the head some skin lesions. It’s the so-called hole sickness. We denote the disease, besides from the holes in the aforesaid zone, even for the effect of the white and mucillaginous faeces. Analyizing the faeces at the microscope, we find a considerable quantity of organism, more precisely flagellated, of consequence this means that in the intestine of the fish there are colony of  Hexamita, or others protozoans. The reason of this clinical summary is an insufficient contribution of nourishing vital substances caused to a monotonous alimentation. To be more precise a deficiency of calcium, phosphorus and vitamin d3 are responsible of the sickness of the hole.
The remedy consist in the radical changement of the quality of the fodder enriching the diet with the missed vitamins. But the changing of diet would help more the flagellates than our fishes, consequently, before, we have to eliminate the real cause, that is the intestinal parasitic.
There are three types of therapy. The first consists to subject the infected fishes of an encreasing of the temperature of the water. Every day the temperature is increased of 1° until a maximum value of 37°. After  reaching the maximum temperature, we immediately decrease of 1° each day until to restore the temperature used normally.
